= salesforce_bulk

==Overview

Salesforce Bulk is a simple Ruby gem for connecting to and using the Salesforce Bulk API[http://www.salesforce.com/us/developer/docs/api_asynch/index.htm].

==Installation

Install SalesforceBulk from RubyGems:

  gem install salesforce_bulk

Or include it in your project's *Gemfile* with Bundler:

  gem 'salesforce_bulk'

==Contribute

To contribute, fork this repo, create a topic branch, make changes, then send a pull request. Pull requests without accompanying tests will *not* be accepted. To run tests in your fork, just do:

  bundle install
  rake

==Configuration/Initialization

=== Basic Configuration

  require 'salesforce_bulk'
  client = SalesforceBulk::Client.new(username: 'MyUsername', password: 'MyPassword', token: 'MySecurityToken')
  client.authenticate

Optional keys include host (defaults to "login.salesforce.com"), version (defaults to 24.0) and debugging (defaults to false).

=== Configuring from a YAML file

If you initialize by passing only the name of a YAML file the contents will be to read to configure the Client object. The optional keys mentioned in the Basic Configuration section can also be used here.

  ---
  username: MyUsername
  password: MyPassword
  token: MySecurityToken

Then in a Ruby script:

  require 'salesforce_bulk'
  
  client = SalesforceBulk::Client.new("config/salesforce_bulk.yml")
  client.authenticate

== Usage Examples

Some requirements if you are moving from an older version of the gem. You must specify every key even if it has no value for each hash in the data array for a batch.

=== Basic Example

  data1 = [{:Name__c => 'Test 1'}, {:Name__c => 'Test 2'}]
  data2 = [{:Name__c => 'Test 3'}, {:Name__c => 'Test 4'}]
  
  job = client.add_job(:insert, :MyObject__c)
  
  # easily add multiple batches to a job
  batch = client.add_batch(job.id, data1)
  batch = client.add_batch(job.id, data2)
  
  job = client.close_job(job.id) # or use the abort_job(id) method

=== Adding a Job

When adding a job you can specify the following operations for the first argument:
- :delete
- :insert
- :update
- :upsert
- :query

When using the :upsert operation you must specify an external ID field name:

  job = client.add_job(:upsert, :MyObject__c, :external_id_field_name => :MyId__c)

For any operation you should be able to specify a concurrency mode. The default is Parallel and the other choice is Serial.

  job = client.add_job(:upsert, :MyObject__c, :concurrency_mode => :Serial, :external_id_field_name => :MyId__c)

=== Retrieving Info for a Job

  job = client.job_info(jobId) # returns a Job object
  
  puts "Job #{job.id} is closed." if job.closed? # other methods: open?, aborted?

=== Retrieving Info for all Batches

  batches = client.batch_info_list(jobId) # returns an Array of Batch objects
  
  batches.each do |batch|
    puts "Batch #{batch.id} failed." if batch.failed? # other methods: completed?, failed?, in_progress?, queued?
  end

=== Retrieving Info for a single Batch

  batch = client.batch_info(jobId, batchId) # returns a Batch object
  
  puts "Batch #{batch.id} is in progress." if batch.in_progress?

=== Retrieving Query Results



Sample operations:

  # Insert/Create
  new_account = Hash["name" => "Test Account", "type" => "Other"] # Add as many fields per record as needed.
  records_to_insert = Array.new
  records_to_insert.push(new_account) # You can add as many records as you want here, just keep in mind that Salesforce has governor limits.
  result = salesforce.create("Account", records_to_insert)
  puts "result is: #{result.inspect}"

  # Update
  updated_account = Hash["name" => "Test Account -- Updated", id => "a00A0001009zA2m"] # Nearly identical to an insert, but we need to pass the salesforce id.
  records_to_update = Array.new
  records_to_update.push(updated_account)
  salesforce.update("Account", records_to_update)

  # Upsert
  upserted_account = Hash["name" => "Test Account -- Upserted", "External_Field_Name" => "123456"] # Fields to be updated. External field must be included
  records_to_upsert = Array.new
  records_to_upsert.push(upserted_account)
  salesforce.upsert("Account", records_to_upsert, "External_Field_Name") # Note that upsert accepts an extra parameter for the external field name

  # Delete
  deleted_account = Hash["id" => "a00A0001009zA2m"] # We only specify the id of the records to delete
  records_to_delete = Array.new
  records_to_delete.push(deleted_account)
  salesforce.delete("Account", records_to_delete)

  # Query
  res = salesforce.query("Account", "select id, name, createddate from Account limit 3") # We just need to pass the sobject name and the query string

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Jorge Valdivia.

Copyright (c) 2012 Javier Julio.
